Despite only being the fourth most dangerous car ride I had taken in that 10-day trip (the others being an "ambulance" ride in a carry diba which ran over a cat and a dog on the way  - only earning the title of ambulance because of having a few parchments of bandages somewhere in the trunk; a long bus ride through Diameer Bhasha where a landslide blocked our road and we got rear-ended by a truck; or the jeep ride to Fairy Meadows where if I stuck my head out I might as well have upset the center of gravity of the entire machine and sent it falling down into a crevice, not to mention the other minibus in which we ended up getting into a road rage situation and our driver had to threaten the driver of the soapbox-sized car with a wrench—but that would be the fifth), I was still not quite accustomed to such a shanty minibus speeding this fast on the pot-holed Grand Trunk Road at dusk.
It seemed to hover above the tarmac, and whenever the driver pressed the horn which he did whenever a vehicle was seen in a 200-metre radius it let out the entire hour-long rendition of a symphony from Bach. It managed to cover the 3-hour distance between Pir Wadhai station in Rawalpindi and Mirpur in a speedy 3 hours—an impressive feat for a high-es with 20 people sitting in it. Much like the minibus, I hovered too, half of me in the air right next to the sole exit/entry door, as my neighbor had elected to put all his mortal belongings, and maybe even some of the gifts promised to him in heaven, on a part of my seat.
"Are you from Mirpur?" he asked me. It was a silly question. I would have tried to explain to him how no one emigrates to smaller cities, the poor quality of educational and professional opportunities in Mirpur, and how using Bayesian statistics it was beyond certain that of course, I was from Mirpur—for why else would someone in their right mind go to the city? However, I had asked him earlier "How much is the ticket for," which arguably is a stupider thing to ask someone who—it turns out—is not the conductor of the bus, and so I instead replied with a simple "Yes." I mentioned that I was returning home from the US as I studied abroad. Given that I was in a high-es with a small luggage bag only, there was a fat chance this was true and the guy probably knew it too. It was a lie; I had returned home 10 days ago, but also I had left as soon as I came, venturing north with my friends, so in a spiritual sense it felt right to say and much more terse than whatever my mind could capture of the events from the last 10 days.
"Are you from Mirpur?" I asked.
"No," he said and went on explaining how he was actually from Faisalabad, applying for a UK visa. To my surprise, he explained that there were only three British consulates in Pakistan: in Islamabad, Karachi, and Mirpur due to the heavy immigration to the UK from my city. He was surprised that I had no one in my immediate family who lived in the UK, but then again I was studying in the US so the stereotype fit just the same.
"But why are you coming from Islamabad then?" I was perplexed; he probably would've been better off just going to the consulate in Rawalpindi, but he explained how the appointments were full to the brim. Mirpur had free slots earlier, and he was in urgency to go to the UK and make a quick buck, so he stopped in Islamabad for one night before heading back south to Mirpur.
We talked about where he was staying (I knew the spot), and what or where Sector F1 was (I explained to him), and I told him to reach out if he needed any help (he did not in the two days he was in the city). I was struck by how much this man was traveling just for a UK visa, to a random town like Mirpur in which he would have no interest or reason to visit otherwise, and how convenient life I had been born into, having the privilege to study abroad and having better pipelines to success—and a visa office of which I had not even known of a few minutes before, a 15-minute drive from home. We could not be more different I thought as I looked into the dusk setting on the countryside.
I turned my head following the shadows as they cast onto the Greyhound interior that hovered through the freeways between SF and LA. I was on my way to answer the call of the Argentina consulate, who had been so kind as to offer me a visit to their office 1000 kilometers away for my Argentinian visa application. To not inconvenience them as hosts or waste ink writing my name in some register of theirs or occupy some bits in their computer counter system I had tried to excuse myself. Despite my insistence that I had work, that it was a Wednesday, and why was I needed there in the first place when none of my classmates were (because of my Pakistani passport) I had failed. 2 months after meeting the unnamed traveler, I was reminded of him on my way to LA, as I stared into a deep purple sky, thinking—not so different perhaps.
When you told me that up there was Fitz Roy, I had to take your word for it. It was a cloudy day and neither of us could see. Half an hour ago, before we had made that turn to El Chaltén, I would have done anything to see it. Hell, I would have even made someone drive us here—six hours total, here and back—across grey-green tundra fields with icy glacial veins flowing through them, on such a cloudy day as this.
I saw Fitz Roy clearly then: I was sure that slightly grey patch was where the peak was, that other weird curved edge of the cloud was where the second highest point was, and somewhere along the rest of the blank grey sky the rest of the mountain hid. Well, that was that. We only paid to roll the dice. Now the dice were rolled, and all the pieces had to move back before it got too dark.
And so the six of us headed back to an SUV where an impatient driver awaited both us and the election results.
"Told you guys it's too cloudy and too late in the day," he said. "There was no point coming here in the first place but you know."
I appreciated the sentiment, but the sky was cast. It was no use arguing over a decision made many hours ago; despite the protestations from our driver, Javier, we could only do nothing.
I opened my phone—still no signal. The higher arcs of my wifi sign had disappeared as much as the peaks of Fitz Roy had.
"Any news of the election, Javier?" I asked before we began our three-hour drive back to Calafate.
"No."
As we shut the car door the sky and earth collapsed, the world shrinking between door to door and bonnet to bumper. Most of the group soon fell asleep, exhausted from travel, and those who remained awake simply watched the same film in reverse that we had seen on their way here, left to silly procrastinations of looking at the mountains around us and making absurd guesses of how long it would take to climb them.
A traveler appeared in the distance: the river itself, milky-blue and chalked with glacial sediment, grinding stone to dust as it snaked down the hills. We leaped over it across a bridge and turned into the lot of a log cabin souvenir store, the only excuse for a stop on the journey. A single dish crowned one of the corners of the building from which a twig-like antenna poked out. Javier disappeared into the cabin. Unlike last time, we didn't get off, or rather we didn't have time to. He was back soon.
"They don't have signals either. Their stuff is broken."
The film rewound, and our car set off again.
Javier said we were surrounded by sheep ranches, but we never saw any. Instead, there were only two parallel fences guarding these empty farms on either side, threaded by guanaco corpses in different states of rot, stuck between the road and the ranch, their heads pointing towards the distant hills. But the mountains were left far behind and, merging with a larger road, we could now see where the river blossomed into the bright blue pan of Lake Argentino next to which we could see the edge of the city of Calafate.
A single pop emerged from my pocket and soon my phone popped out of my pocket and into my hands. The lock screen made funny faces, about undelivered WhatsApp messages, of downloads stuck at 1% and other mild impossibilities.
Then the wifi bars reached higher and higher, and my phone was flooded by meaningless notifications, a million messages, and PedidosYa marketing. The wifi bars grew, enveloped the car, and reached out to some distant cell tower, catapulted to space forever, then quickly struck down by a satellite down to the city of Buenos Aires where it heard everything that it could care to remember in its 64 kilobytes of packet data.
Javier's ears shot up upon hearing the notifications. He passed a look into the rearview mirror.
Expecting.
I shuffled to switch tabs.
"Milei won".
He just sighed and drove on.
